can you believe it Jerome Howell to the
rescue in today's video we are going to
talk about what the Federal Reserve has
said and what they'll do you came here
for the truth so let me unveil that for
you in today's video we are going to
have our Focus initially on what the
Federal Reserve has said that's going to
lead into next month of September where
you've got to be aware of the changes
not just what it signals for right then
at that moment but in the following
month so I'm going to break that all
down we're going to talk in what it
means for you the individual so that you
can be prepared so that you can take
action I've been taking action for years
I've been talking to everybody on this
channel who is willing to listen I built
so many different things for free
including Compass a on my website
compass is available to everybody so
that we can all get a foundation of
knowledge so that we can all make
progress we don't want to be stuck we
don't want to be running around in
circles no more delays let's begin right
here we are going to look at Fed chair
Powell indicates interest rate cuts are
ahead quote the time has come for policy
to adjust yes that's what Jerome Papa
Powell had said and this was what they
were waiting for the markets have been
waiting for this and they rallied on the
news now what I would say to everybody
is that you've got to be aware that it
isn't just the fact that they said it
but they did
it's the fact that when they do their
first cut more cuts are likely to follow
when we talk about trading stocks what
happens here is that you have to work
within a series of
probabilities and in this case one cut
means there's a higher probability of
another cut coming and that is very
important because what we have seen
historically is that once they start
they don't stop now some would suggest
they're actually in a recession and this
is why they need to start cutting they
usually come at the same point
unemployment starts to rise interest
rate starts to cut all at the same time
for one reason or another this is what
they're doing if we try to look at this
and try to say hey they're they're not
admitting the jobs numbers are correct
they're not admitting the right
inflation numbers and we we can yell and
scream all day long but it's not going
to put more money in my bank I want to
know what I've got to do as a result of
all this garbage that they're telling us
so here we go if you want to see the
actual video there will be a link in the
description at the bottom it says
sources used in this video you can watch
this to get the actual words themselves
okay so you don't have to take anybody's
word for it that you read a quote in a
CNBC article this is an actual clip of
what he was talking about and he
basically just says inflation is on its
way down to the the 2% goal that we have
and that we're monitoring all the
details of what's going on in the
economy blah blah blah that's what he
said if you want it it's there for you
now rate cut expectations the markets
will bet on these through swaps through
Futures and all that means fancy stuff
for what the market believes and usually
the market tends to be accurate which is
pretty interesting and so you can see it
for yourself right here
where you're looking at rate Cuts what
the expectation should be it's not going
to be you know some have said oh we need
75 basis points we need 55 50 basis
points look usually what has happened is
that it's going to be at this 25 basis
points or
0.25% cut and then it remains to be seen
will they do that cut at the next
meeting or will they skip a meeting we
that remains to be seen But the markets
are betting that there will be Cuts so
we'll
see as a result of that this is New
Zealand by the way as a result of this
you can see that the banks the
commercial banks will start to react but
they react potentially in advance but
often times right after the news comes
out the banks go and they start to cut
their mortgage rates the amount that
they're going to charge their customers
to entice them to come and borrow okay
that's what they're trying to do and
despite what some would say about you
know uh look at the 10year to understand
what's happening uh don't look at what
the central bank is doing it's all about
the 10year why don't you look at what
the central bank is doing and you could
ignore everything else because they are
the center of it all now I describe this
whole thing for two hours every Friday
more than two hours every Friday on the
finance Friday live we go in in depth
okay uh but you get kind of a little
snippet here um so this is just what I
wanted to talk about and then I'll I'll
bring that into the end which is many of
the the facts that you've been seeing
that you've been dealing with that I've
been seeing being passed around out
there that people are struggling fast
food restaurants fight to keep customers
as food and wage cost Spike restaurant
owners are really stuck between a rock
and a hard place you're seeing the cost
of the employees employees are saying
hey I need a living wage I need to get
paid more but then the employer is
saying I can't afford to pay more
because our margins keep getting
narrower and narrower and that's
happening happening all over the place
doesn't mean that they're not making a
lot of money but certainly they're
getting squeezed out a lot of these
businesses shut down and then what well
then you don't have an income anymore
right uh and so this is the problem
nobody wants to blame the actual source
of that problem it is the devalued
currency right that that's what's going
on price gouging it does happen yes but
the source of the problem is a devalued
currency Shoppers are so scarred by
inflation that they've cemented new
habits to save money uh discount
retailers are winning you can look at
the discount retailers Costco Walmart
dollar stores that's where people are
going more now than ever before but
because of inflation the inflation's
hitting people real hard this is just
one example in Canada where there's
something called noname grocery noname
is is part of a brand okay that's
literally the brand name noname but they
want to create a store that's just
focused around that because people need
the cheapest possible stuff they don't
want the expensive stuff they're
choosing other types of products that
are just going to save them money
they're not willing to spend on those uh
maybe nicer products that might have you
know be organic or might be something
that's premium in a sense this is
talking about the unfortunate
circumstances in many places but
California's problems are everywhere
double income couples with good jobs are
priced out of home ownership in
Washington homeless camps uh sprawl in
Phoenix the rent is too damn high in
kalamazo okay so everywhere it's going
on where the prices are too high devalue
currency you get the point of what's
coming next is robot and
automation right this is just one
example but robots and automation are
the things that are uh unfortunately
come in seriously seriously fast and so
I have a few notes that I wanted to
cover right here really quick because
it's going to highlight what we've been
seeing over the last while now we have
an inflated currency we have devalued
dollars and of course your disposable
income is reduced as a result of it okay
okay um you're working harder you're
getting less we are seeing that we're
being squeezed in we're being told you
will own nothing and be happy you've got
all of that so what I see is a few
people controlling everything from the
top and we have very little left because
it's just too expensive this will happen
in the next cycle so the way I see it
playing out is that we have a crisis at
some point okay and they're going to
make an excuse for cutting these
interest rates and then eventually for
printing money already the stock market
is near the highest it's ever been
already the real estate market is at the
highest it's ever been or near highest
and what are they going to do they're
going to cut interest rates making it
more affordable to pump that up or and
then at the same time they're going to
um inflate as much as they can at some
point might take a crisis to do it but
if that's another 6 months if that's
another two years if it's another 5
years at some point they are going to
inflate this currency more than what
happened in 2020 and
Beyond that's the challenge that we have
so your currency the way you have today
is going to be the good old days in
short order all right and then of course
we are always trapped by a different
system and unfortunately for a lot of
people they never are never able to get
out of that trap so there's a couple
things that I want to note number one
like I said I have a free % free course
for everybody the money gps.com
Compass this is free for everybody I had
somebody messaged me um through one of
my Amazon Seller things and they they
basically said hey I I I want to work
for you I want to work for you and the
guy was basically just saying you know I
know I can do so much for you I can make
you money I can do all this stuff and I
said you know you got to learn a skill
to to be able to do that you I I don't
you don't have a skill that I have you
need to learn these skills he said okay
what do I do what do I do I'll work for
you I said no no no start with my
website it's called Compass get on there
now you got a base now from there you
have to figure out what skills do you
want to acquire or do you need tuning up
on or what skills do you already have
that are valuable and so I told the guy
to go there then he goes okay I'll watch
the videos now what well now you have to
figure that out right you can't be
handheld you can't be handheld all all
all day all along all along because it's
not going to work like that okay but you
get the foundation I told them now you
have a foundation now you got to decide
where is it that you're going to apply
your skills that you're going to make
money from I talked to him about the the
different things that I do uh you know I
learned how to do set up Google ads I
learned how to get the Google grant for
businesses I did that it took me a long
time to learn that but now I have that
skill and I could sell that skill that's
something that you need to understand
you can't just say okay I'm I'm going to
do this now it doesn't work like that in
any in anything that you do if you're
becoming a skill a handy skill you have
to put in the hours it's just a matter
of fact right for first thing you got to
upskill in some way a skill that is very
valuable to people all right valuable to
people what is that you're going to save
them time or you're going to save them
money you figure that out and then the
next thing is got to be mobile as an
individual you've got to be Mobile in
this in this future where we're moving
into a multipolar world where people are
saying I don't like what my government
is doing I don't like what's happening
here and there well if you're not mobile
right you're you're in big trouble so
that comes in two parts you got an
online business there's no question
about that an online business or an
online service that you provide and then
uh residence permits and visas now
that's one part of it you get a
residence permit but if you had a job
that was a 9 to-5 job and your your
everything you have is just in one
location and you did have a residence
permit somewhere else that's a plan B
you can always go should you need to but
now where's your source of income right
that's the problem that's why I talk
about online business once you get
online business and now you're selling
on multiple platforms you're selling
products or Services you could sell on
multiple platforms and you could sell
globally so now you simply open up to
the whole world and that gives you peace
of mind that's what I teach on the
Sunday business live I teach people how
to start an online business from the
ground okay no other businesses like
this like you you can't find this you
can't find a group like it just doesn't
exist it's more like simple questions
people asking the same basic questions
over and over again they're not actually
like okay help me with my business now
that's what I do that's what I do it's a
small group and that allows me to do
that so so if you want to do so uh you
can get more information at the link at
the top of this description but
everybody should if you haven't watched
Compass we're not friends okay if you've
been watching this channel for all this
time and you're you haven't watched
Compass you are not my friend okay and
Janet Yellen will not come and visit you
you're not going to get any visits from
Janet Yellen and if you come to trick-or
treat to our house Janet will not give
you any candy okay I just wanted to tell
you that I appreciate it everybody being
here hit that thumbs up button on the
way out hit that link in the description
check out what I have to offer on the
Friday sessions and the Sunday sessions
and I hope to see you there take care